COMMON CORE MATHEMATICS PROGRESSION
Grade, domain, cluster, and numbered-standard outline

Source: Math_Standards1.pdf, Common Core State Standards for Mathematics

STRUCTURE AND NOTATION

  Zones follow the source: Kindergarten, Grades 1–8, and High School.
  Domains and clusters are nested groups. Numbered standards are concepts.
  Lettered substandards are retained in their parent concept descriptions in YAML.
  A plus sign (+) marks additional mathematics intended for advanced courses.
  Standards for Mathematical Practice are cross-cutting and are not duplicated
  into grade-specific graph zones.

KINDERGARTEN

  K.CC Counting and Cardinality
    K.CC.A Know number names and the count sequence.
      K.CC.1 — Count to 100 by ones and by tens
      K.CC.2 — Count forward beginning from a given number within the known sequence
      K.CC.3 — Write numbers from 0 to 20
    K.CC.B Count to tell the number of objects.
      K.CC.4 — Understand the relationship between numbers and quantities; connect counting to cardinality
      K.CC.5 — Count to answer "how many?" questions about as many as 20 things arranged in a line
    K.CC.C Compare numbers.
      K.CC.6 — Identify whether the number of objects in one group is greater than
      K.CC.7 — Compare two numbers between 1 and 10 presented as written numerals

  K.OA Operations and Algebraic Thinking
    K.OA.A Understand addition as putting together and adding to, and understand subtraction as taking apart and taking from.
      K.OA.1 — Represent addition and subtraction with objects, fingers, mental images, drawings, sounds
      K.OA.2 — Solve addition and subtraction word problems, and add and subtract within 10
      K.OA.3 — Decompose numbers less than or equal to 10 into pairs in more than one way
      K.OA.4 — For any number from 1 to 9, find the number that makes 10 when added to the given number
      K.OA.5 — Fluently add and subtract within 5

  K.NBT Number and Operations in Base Ten
    K.NBT.A Work with numbers 11—19 to gain foundations for place value.
      K.NBT.1 — Compose and decompose numbers from 11 to 19 into ten ones and some further ones

  K.MD Measurement and Data
    K.MD.A Describe and compare measurable attributes.
      K.MD.1 — Describe measurable attributes of objects, such as length or weight
      K.MD.2 — Directly compare two objects with a measurable attribute in common
    K.MD.B Classify objects and count the number of objects in each category.
      K.MD.3 — Classify objects into given categories

  K.G Geometry
    K.G.A Identify and describe shapes (squares, circles, triangles, rectangles, hexagons, cubes, cones, cylinders, and spheres).
      K.G.1 — Describe objects in the environment using names of shapes
      K.G.2 — Correctly name shapes regardless of their orientations or overall size
      K.G.3 — Identify shapes as two-dimensional
    K.G.B Analyze, compare, create, and compose shapes.
      K.G.4 — Analyze and compare two- and three-dimensional shapes
      K.G.5 — Model shapes in the world by building shapes from components
      K.G.6 — Compose simple shapes to form larger shapes

GRADE 1

  1.OA Operations and Algebraic Thinking
    1.OA.A Represent and solve problems involving addition and subtraction.
      1.OA.1 — Use addition and subtraction within 20 to solve word problems involving situations of…
      1.OA.2 — Solve word problems that call for addition of three whole numbers whose sum is less than…
    1.OA.B Understand and apply properties of operations and the relationship between addition and subtraction.
      1.OA.3 — Apply properties of operations as strategies to add and subtract
      1.OA.4 — Understand subtraction as an unknown-addend problem
    1.OA.C Add and subtract within 20.
      1.OA.5 — Relate counting to addition and subtraction
      1.OA.6 — Add and subtract within 20, demonstrating fluency for addition and subtraction within 10
    1.OA.D Work with addition and subtraction equations.
      1.OA.7 — Understand the meaning of the equal sign
      1.OA.8 — Determine the unknown whole number in an addition or subtraction equation relating three…

  1.NBT Number and Operations in Base Ten
    1.NBT.A Extend the counting sequence.
      1.NBT.1 — Count to 120, starting at any number less than 120
    1.NBT.B Understand place value.
      1.NBT.2 — Understand that the two digits of a two-digit number represent amounts of tens and ones
      1.NBT.3 — Compare two two-digit numbers based on meanings of the tens and ones digits
    1.NBT.C Use place value understanding and properties of operations to add and subtract.
      1.NBT.4 — Add within 100, including adding a two-digit number and a one-digit number, and adding a…
      1.NBT.5 — Given a two-digit number, mentally find 10 more or 10 less than the number, without…
      1.NBT.6 — Subtract multiples of 10 in the range 10-90 from multiples of 10 in the range 10-90…

  1.MD Measurement and Data
    1.MD.A Measure lengths indirectly and by iterating length units.
      1.MD.1 — Order three objects by length; compare the lengths of two objects indirectly by using a…
      1.MD.2 — Express the length of an object as a whole number of length units
    1.MD.B Tell and write time.
      1.MD.3 — Tell and write time in hours and half-hours using analog and digital clocks
    1.MD.C Represent and interpret data.
      1.MD.4 — Organize, represent, and interpret data with up to three categories

  1.G Geometry
    1.G.A Reason with shapes and their attributes.
      1.G.1 — Distinguish between defining attributes
      1.G.2 — Compose two-dimensional shapes
      1.G.3 — Partition circles and rectangles into two and four equal shares

GRADE 2

  2.OA Operations and Algebraic Thinking
    2.OA.A Represent and Solve Problems Involving Addition and Subtraction
      2.OA.1 — Use addition and subtraction within 100 to solve one- and two-step word problems…
    2.OA.B Add and Subtract Within 20
      2.OA.2 — Fluently add and subtract within 20 using mental strategies
    2.OA.C Work with equal groups of objects to gain foundations for multiplication.
      2.OA.3 — Determine whether a group of objects (up to 20) has an odd or even number of members
      2.OA.4 — Use addition to find the total number of objects arranged in rectangular arrays with up…

  2.NBT Number and Operations in Base Ten
    2.NBT.A Understand place value.
      2.NBT.1 — Understand that the three digits of a three-digit number represent amounts of hundreds
      2.NBT.2 — Count within 1000; skip-count by 5s, 10s, and 100s
      2.NBT.3 — Read and write numbers to 1000 using base-ten numerals, number names, and expanded form
      2.NBT.4 — Compare two three-digit numbers based on meanings of the hundreds
    2.NBT.B Use place value understanding and properties of operations to add and subtract.
      2.NBT.5 — Fluently add and subtract within 100 using strategies based on place value
      2.NBT.6 — Add up to four two-digit numbers using strategies based on placevalue and properties of…
      2.NBT.7 — Add and subtract within 1000, using concrete models or drawings and strategies based on…
      2.NBT.8 — Mentally add 10 or 100 to a given number 100—900
      2.NBT.9 — Explain why addition and subtraction strategies work

  2.MD Measurement and Data
    2.MD.A Measure and estimate lengths in standard units.
      2.MD.9 — Generate measurement data by measuring lengths of several objects to the nearest whole unit
      2.MD.10 — Draw a picture graph and a bar graph (with single-unit scale) to represent a data set…
    2.MD.B Relate addition and subtraction to length.
      2.MD.1 — Measure the length of an object by selecting and using appropriate tools such as rulers
      2.MD.2 — Measure the length of an object twice
      2.MD.3 — Estimate lengths using units of inches, feet, centimeters, and meters
      2.MD.4 — Measure to determine how much longer one object is than another
    2.MD.C Work with time and money.
      2.MD.5 — Use addition and subtraction within 100 to solve word problems involving lengths that…
      2.MD.6 — Represent whole numbers as lengths from 0 on a number line diagram with equally spaced…
    2.MD.D Represent and interpret data.
      2.MD.7 — Tell and write time from analog and digital clocks to the nearest five minutes, using a.m
      2.MD.8 — Solve word problems involving dollar bills

  2.G Geometry
    2.G.A Reason with shapes and their attributes.
      2.G.1 — Recognize and draw shapes having specified attributes
      2.G.2 — Partition a rectangle into rows and columns of same-size squares and count to find the…
      2.G.3 — Partition circles and rectangles into two

GRADE 3

  3.OA Operations and Algebraic Thinking
    3.OA.A Represent and solve problems involving multiplication and division.
      3.OA.1 — Interpret products of whole numbers
      3.OA.2 — Interpret whole-number quotients of whole numbers
      3.OA.3 — Use multiplication and division within 100 to solve word problems in situations…
      3.OA.4 — Determine the unknown whole number in a multiplication or division equation relating…
    3.OA.B Understand properties of multiplication and the relationship between multiplication and division.
      3.OA.5 — Apply properties of operations as strategies to multiply and divide
      3.OA.6 — Understand division as an unknown-factor problem
    3.OA.C Multiply and divide within 100.
      3.OA.7 — Fluently multiply and divide within 100
    3.OA.D Solve problems involving the four operations, and identify and explain patterns in arithmetic.
      3.OA.8 — Solve two-step word problems using the four operations
      3.OA.9 — Identify arithmetic patterns

  3.NBT Number and Operations in Base Ten
    3.NBT.A Use place value understanding and properties of operations to perform multi-digit arithmetic.
      3.NBT.1 — Use place value understanding to round whole numbers to the nearest 10 or 100
      3.NBT.2 — Fluently add and subtract within 1000 using strategies and algorithms based on place value
      3.NBT.3 — Multiply one-digit whole numbers by multiples of 10 in the range 10—90

  3.NF Number and Operations—Fractions
    3.NF.A Develop understanding of fractions as numbers.
      3.NF.1 — Understand a fraction 1/b as the quantity formed by 1 part when a whole is partitioned…
      3.NF.2 — Understand a fraction as a number on the number line
      3.NF.3 — Explain equivalence of fractions in special cases

  3.MD Measurement and Data
    3.MD.A Solve problems involving measurement and estimation of intervals of time, liquid volumes, and masses of objects.
      3.MD.1 — Tell and write time to the nearest minute and measure time intervals in minutes
      3.MD.2 — Measure and estimate liquid volumes and masses of objects using standard units of grams (g)
    3.MD.B Represent and interpret data.
      3.MD.3 — Draw a scaled picture graph and a scaled bar graph to represent a data set with several…
      3.MD.4 — Generate measurement data by measuring lengths using rulers marked with halves and…
    3.MD.C Geometric measurement: understand concepts of area and relate area to multiplication and to addition.
      3.MD.5 — Recognize area as an attribute of plane figures and understand concepts of area measurement
      3.MD.6 — Measure areas by counting unit squares
      3.MD.7 — Relate area to the operations of multiplication and addition
    3.MD.D Geometric measurement: recognize perimeter as an attribute of plane figures and distinguish between linear and area measures.
      3.MD.8 — Solve real world and mathematical problems involving perimeters of polygons

  3.G Geometry
    3.G.A Reason with shapes and their attributes.
      3.G.1 — Understand that shapes in different categories
      3.G.2 — Partition shapes into parts with equal areas

GRADE 4

  4.OA Operations and Algebraic Thinking
    4.OA.A Use the four operations with whole numbers to solve problems.
      4.OA.1 — Interpret a multiplication equation as a comparison
      4.OA.2 — Multiply or divide to solve word problems involving multiplicative comparison
      4.OA.3 — Solve multistep word problems posed with whole numbers and having whole-number answers…
    4.OA.B Gain familiarity with factors and multiples.
      4.OA.4 — Find all factor pairs for a whole number in the range 1—100
    4.OA.C Generate and analyze patterns.
      4.OA.5 — Generate a number or shape pattern that follows a given rule

  4.NBT Number and Operations in Base Ten
    4.NBT.A Generalize place value understanding for multi-digit whole numbers.
      4.NBT.1 — Recognize that in a multi-digit whole number
      4.NBT.2 — Read and write multi-digit whole numbers using base-ten numerals
      4.NBT.3 — Use place value understanding to round multi-digit whole numbers to any place
    4.NBT.B Use place value understanding and properties of operations to perform multi-digit arithmetic.
      4.NBT.4 — Fluently add and subtract multi-digit whole numbers using the standard algorithm
      4.NBT.5 — Multiply a whole number of up to four digits by a one-digit whole number
      4.NBT.6 — Find whole-number quotients and remainders with up to four-digit dividends and one-digit…

  4.NF Number and Operations—Fractions
    4.NF.A Extend understanding of fraction equivalence and ordering.
      4.NF.1 — Explain why a fraction a/b is equivalent to a fraction (n × a)/(n × b) by using visual…
      4.NF.2 — Compare two fractions with different numerators and different denominators
    4.NF.B Build fractions from unit fractions by applying and extending previous understandings of operations on whole numbers.
      4.NF.3 — Understand a fraction a/b with a > 1 as a sum of fractions 1/b
      4.NF.4 — Apply and extend previous understandings of multiplication to multiply a fraction by a…
    4.NF.C Understand decimal notation for fractions, and compare decimal fractions.
      4.NF.5 — Express a fraction with denominator 10 as an equivalent fraction with denominator 100
      4.NF.6 — Use decimal notation for fractions with denominators 10 or 100
      4.NF.7 — Compare two decimals to hundredths by reasoning about their size

  4.MD Measurement and Data
    4.MD.A Solve problems involving measurement and conversion of measurements from a larger unit to a smaller unit.
      4.MD.1 — Know relative sizes of measurement units within one system of units including km, m, cm
      4.MD.2 — Use the four operations to solve word problems involving distances
      4.MD.3 — Apply the area and perimeter formulas for rectangles in real world and mathematical…
    4.MD.B Represent and interpret data.
      4.MD.4 — Make a line plot to display a data set of measurements in fractions of a unit
    4.MD.C Geometric measurement: understand concepts of angle and measure angles.
      4.MD.5 — Recognize angles as geometric shapes that are formed wherever two rays share a common…
      4.MD.6 — Measure angles in whole-number degrees using a protractor
      4.MD.7 — Recognize angle measure as additive

  4.G Geometry
    4.G.A Draw and identify lines and angles, and classify shapes by properties of their lines and angles.
      4.G.1 — Draw points, lines, line segments, rays, angles (right, acute, obtuse), and…
      4.G.2 — Classify two-dimensional figures based on the presence or absence of parallel or…
      4.G.3 — Recognize a line of symmetry for a two-dimensional figure as a line across the figure…

GRADE 5

  5.OA Operations and Algebraic Thinking
    5.OA.A Write and interpret numerical expressions.
      5.OA.1 — Use parentheses, brackets, or braces in numerical expressions, and evaluate expressions…
      5.OA.2 — Write simple expressions that record calculations with numbers
    5.OA.B Analyze patterns and relationships.
      5.OA.3 — Generate two numerical patterns using two given rules

  5.NBT Number and Operations in Base Ten
    5.NBT.A Understand the place value system.
      5.NBT.1 — Recognize that in a multi-digit number
      5.NBT.2 — Explain patterns in the number of zeros of the product when multiplying a number by…
      5.NBT.3 — Read, write, and compare decimals to thousandths
      5.NBT.4 — Use place value understanding to round decimals to any place
    5.NBT.B Perform operations with multi-digit whole numbers and with decimals to hundredths.
      5.NBT.5 — Fluently multiply multi-digit whole numbers using the standardalgorithm
      5.NBT.6 — Find whole-number quotients of whole numbers with up to four-digit dividends and…
      5.NBT.7 — Add, subtract, multiply, and divide decimals to hundredths, using concrete models or…

  5.NF Number and Operations—Fractions
    5.NF.A Use equivalent fractions as a strategy to add and subtract fractions.
      5.NF.1 — Add and subtract fractions with unlike denominators (including mixed numbers) by…
      5.NF.2 — Solve word problems involving addition and subtraction of fractions referring to the…
    5.NF.B Apply and extend previous understandings of multiplication and division to multiply and divide fractions.
      5.NF.3 — Interpret a fraction as division of the numerator by the denominator (a/b = a ÷ b)
      5.NF.4 — Apply and extend previous understandings of multiplication to multiply a fraction or…
      5.NF.5 — Interpret multiplication as scaling (resizing), by
      5.NF.6 — Solve real world problems involving multiplication of fractions and mixed numbers
      5.NF.7 — Apply and extend previous understandings of division to divide unit fractions by whole…

  5.MD Measurement and Data
    5.MD.A Convert like measurement units within a given measurement system.
      5.MD.1 — Convert among different-sized standard measurement units within a given measurement system
    5.MD.B Represent and interpret data.
      5.MD.2 — Make a line plot to display a data set of measurements in fractions of a unit
    5.MD.C Geometric measurement: understand concepts of volume and relate volume to multiplication and to addition.
      5.MD.3 — Recognize volume as an attribute of solid figures and understand concepts of volume…
      5.MD.4 — Measure volumes by counting unit cubes
      5.MD.5 — Relate volume to the operations of multiplication and addition and solve real world and…

  5.G Geometry
    5.G.A Graph points on the coordinate plane to solve real-world and mathematical problems.
      5.G.1 — Use a pair of perpendicular number lines
      5.G.2 — Represent real world and mathematical problems by graphing points in the first quadrant…
    5.G.B Classify two-dimensional figures into categories based on their properties.
      5.G.3 — Understand that attributes belonging to a category of two-dimensional figures also…
      5.G.4 — Classify two-dimensional figures in a hierarchy based on properties

GRADE 6

  6.RP Ratios and Proportional Relationships
    6.RP.A Understand ratio concepts and use ratio reasoning to solve problems.
      6.RP.1 — Understand the concept of a ratio and use ratio language to describe a ratio…
      6.RP.2 — Understand the concept of a unit rate a/b associated with a ratio a:b with b ≠ 0
      6.RP.3 — Use ratio and rate reasoning to solve real-world and mathematical problems

  6.NS The Number System
    6.NS.A Apply and extend previous understandings of multiplication and division to divide fractions by fractions.
      6.NS.1 — Interpret and compute quotients of fractions
    6.NS.B Compute fluently with multi-digit numbers and find common factors and multiples.
      6.NS.2 — Fluently divide multi-digit numbers using the standard algorithm
      6.NS.3 — Fluently add, subtract, multiply, and divide multi-digit decimals using the standard…
      6.NS.4 — Find the greatest common factor of two whole numbers less than or equal to 100 and the…
    6.NS.C Apply and extend previous understandings of numbers to the system of rational numbers.
      6.NS.5 — Understand that positive and negative numbers are used together to describe quantities…
      6.NS.6 — Understand a rational number as a point on the number line
      6.NS.7 — Understand ordering and absolute value of rational numbers
      6.NS.8 — Solve real-world and mathematical problems by graphing points in all four quadrants of…

  6.EE Expressions and Equations
    6.EE.A Apply and extend previous understandings of arithmetic to algebraic expressions.
      6.EE.1 — Write and evaluate numerical expressions involving whole-number exponents
      6.EE.2 — Write, read, and evaluate expressions in which letters stand for numbers
      6.EE.3 — Apply the properties of operations to generate equivalent expressions
      6.EE.4 — Identify when two expressions are equivalent
    6.EE.B Reason about and solve one-variable equations and inequalities.
      6.EE.5 — Understand solving an equation or inequality as a process of answering a question
      6.EE.6 — Use variables to represent numbers and write expressions when solving a real-world or…
      6.EE.7 — Solve real-world and mathematical problems by writing and solving equations of the form…
      6.EE.8 — Write an inequality of the form x > c or x c or x < c have infinitely many solutions
    6.EE.C Represent and analyze quantitative relationships between dependent and independent variables.
      6.EE.9 — Use variables to represent two quantities in a real-world problem that change in…

  6.G Geometry
    6.G.A Solve real-world and mathematical problems involving area, surface area, and volume.
      6.G.1 — Find the area of right triangles, other triangles, special quadrilaterals, and polygons…
      6.G.2 — Find the volume of a right rectangular prism with fractional edge lengths by packing it…
      6.G.3 — Draw polygons in the coordinate plane given coordinates for the vertices
      6.G.4 — Represent three-dimensional figures using nets made up of rectangles and triangles

  6.SP Statistics and Probability
    6.SP.A Develop understanding of statistical variability.
      6.SP.1 — Recognize a statistical question as one that anticipates variability in the data related…
      6.SP.2 — Understand that a set of data collected to answer a statistical question has a…
      6.SP.3 — Recognize that a measure of center for a numerical data set summarizes all of its values…
    6.SP.B Summarize and describe distributions.
      6.SP.4 — Display numerical data in plots on a number line
      6.SP.5 — Summarize numerical data sets in relation to their context, such as by

GRADE 7

  7.RP Ratios and Proportional Relationships
    7.RP.A Analyze proportional relationships and use them to solve real-world and mathematical problems.
      7.RP.1 — Compute unit rates associated with ratios of fractions
      7.RP.2 — Recognize and represent proportional relationships between quantities
      7.RP.3 — Use proportional relationships to solve multistep ratio and percent problems

  7.NS The Number System
    7.NS.A Apply and extend previous understandings of operations with fractions to add, subtract, multiply, and divide rational numbers.
      7.NS.1 — Apply and extend previous understandings of addition and subtraction to add and subtract…
      7.NS.2 — Apply and extend previous understandings of multiplication and division and of fractions…
      7.NS.3 — Solve real-world and mathematical problems involving the four operations with rational…

  7.EE Expressions and Equations
    7.EE.A Use properties of operations to generate equivalent expressions.
      7.EE.1 — Apply properties of operations as strategies to add
      7.EE.2 — Understand that rewriting an expression in different forms in a problem context can shed…
    7.EE.B Solve real-life and mathematical problems using numerical and algebraic expressions and equations.
      7.EE.3 — Solve multi-step real-life and mathematical problems posed with positive and negative…
      7.EE.4 — Use variables to represent quantities in a real-world or mathematical problem

  7.G Geometry
    7.G.A Draw, construct, and describe geometrical figures and describe the relationships between them.
      7.G.1 — Solve problems involving scale drawings of geometric figures
      7.G.2 — Draw (freehand, with ruler and protractor, and with technology) geometric shapes with…
      7.G.3 — Describe the two-dimensional figures that result from slicing three-dimensional figures
    7.G.B Solve real-life and mathematical problems involving angle measure, area, surface area, and volume.
      7.G.4 — Know the formulas for the area and circumference of a circle and use them to solve problems
      7.G.5 — Use facts about supplementary, complementary, vertical, and adjacent angles in a…
      7.G.6 — Solve real-world and mathematical problems involving area

  7.SP Statistics and Probability
    7.SP.A Use random sampling to draw inferences about a population.
      7.SP.1 — Understand that statistics can be used to gain information about a population by…
      7.SP.2 — Use data from a random sample to draw inferences about a population with an unknown…
    7.SP.B Draw informal comparative inferences about two populations.
      7.SP.3 — Informally assess the degree of visual overlap of two numerical data distributions with…
      7.SP.4 — Use measures of center and measures of variability for numerical data from random…
    7.SP.C Investigate chance processes and develop, use, and evaluate probability models.
      7.SP.5 — Understand that the probability of a chance event is a number between 0 and 1 that…
      7.SP.6 — Approximate the probability of a chance event by collecting data on the chance process…
      7.SP.7 — Develop a probability model and use it to find probabilities of events
      7.SP.8 — Find probabilities of compound events using organized lists

GRADE 8

  8.NS The Number System
    8.NS.A Know that there are numbers that are not rational, and approximate them by rational numbers.
      8.NS.1 — Know that numbers that are not rational are called irrational
      8.NS.2 — Use rational approximations of irrational numbers to compare the size of irrational numbers

  8.EE Expressions and Equations
    8.EE.A Work with radicals and integer exponents.
      8.EE.1 — Know and apply the properties of integer exponents to generate equivalent numerical…
      8.EE.2 — Use square root and cube root symbols to represent solutions to equations of the form x²…
      8.EE.3 — Use numbers expressed in the form of a single digit times an integer power of 10 to…
      8.EE.4 — Perform operations with numbers expressed in scientific notation
    8.EE.B Understand the connections between proportional relationships, lines, and linear equations.
      8.EE.5 — Graph proportional relationships, interpreting the unit rate as the slope of the graph
      8.EE.6 — Use similar triangles to explain why the slope m is the same between any two distinct…
    8.EE.C Analyze and solve linear equations and pairs of simultaneous linear equations.
      8.EE.7 — Solve linear equations in one variable
      8.EE.8 — Analyze and solve pairs of simultaneous linear equations

  8.F Functions
    8.F.A Define, evaluate, and compare functions.
      8.F.1 — Understand that a function is a rule that assigns to each input exactly one output
      8.F.2 — Compare properties of two functions each represented in a different way
      8.F.3 — Interpret the equation y = mx + b as defining a linear function
    8.F.B Use functions to model relationships between quantities.
      8.F.4 — Construct a function to model a linear relationship between two quantities
      8.F.5 — Describe qualitatively the functional relationship between two quantities by analyzing a…

  8.G Geometry
    8.G.A Understand congruence and similarity using physical models, transparencies, or geometry software.
      8.G.1 — Verify experimentally the properties of rotations, reflections, and translations
      8.G.2 — Understand that a two-dimensional figure is congruent to another if the second can be…
      8.G.3 — Describe the effect of dilations, translations, rotations, and reflections on…
      8.G.4 — Understand that a two-dimensional figure is similar to another if the second can be…
      8.G.5 — Use informal arguments to establish facts about the angle sum and exterior angle of…
    8.G.B Understand and apply the Pythagorean Theorem.
      8.G.6 — Explain a proof of the Pythagorean Theorem and its converse
      8.G.7 — Apply the Pythagorean Theorem to determine unknown side lengths in right triangles in…
      8.G.8 — Apply the Pythagorean Theorem to find the distance between two points in a coordinate…
    8.G.C Solve real-world and mathematical problems involving volume of cylinders, cones, and spheres.
      8.G.9 — Know the formulas for the volumes of cones

  8.SP Statistics and Probability
    8.SP.A Investigate patterns of association in bivariate data.
      8.SP.1 — Construct and interpret scatter plots for bivariate measurement data to investigate…
      8.SP.2 — Know that straight lines are widely used to model relationships between two quantitative…
      8.SP.3 — Use the equation of a linear model to solve problems in the context of bivariate…
      8.SP.4 — Understand that patterns of association can also be seen in bivariate categorical data…

HIGH SCHOOL

  HS Number and Quantity
    N-RN The Real Number System
      N-RN.A Extend the properties of exponents to rational exponents.
        N-RN.1 — Explain how the definition of the meaning of rational exponents follows from extending…
        N-RN.2 — Rewrite expressions involving radicals and rational exponents using the properties of…
      N-RN.B Use properties of rational and irrational numbers.
        N-RN.3 — Explain why the sum or product of two rational numbers is rational

    N-Q Quantities
      N-Q.A Reason quantitatively and use units to solve problems.
        N-Q.1 — Use units as a way to understand problems and to guide the solution of multi-step problems
        N-Q.2 — Define appropriate quantities for the purpose of descriptive modeling
        N-Q.3 — Choose a level of accuracy appropriate to limitations on measurement when reporting…

    N-CN The Complex Number System
      N-CN.A Perform arithmetic operations with complex numbers.
        N-CN.1 — Know there is a complex number i such that i² = —1
        N-CN.2 — Use the relation i² = —1 and the commutative
        N-CN.3 (+) — Find the conjugate of a complex number
      N-CN.B Represent complex numbers and their operations on the complex plane.
        N-CN.4 (+) — Represent complex numbers on the complex plane in rectangular and polar form
        N-CN.5 (+) — Represent addition, subtraction, multiplication, and conjugation of complex numbers…
        N-CN.6 (+) — Calculate the distance between numbers in the complex plane as the modulus of the difference
      N-CN.C Use complex numbers in polynomial identities and equations.
        N-CN.7 — Solve quadratic equations with real coefficients that have complex solutions
        N-CN.8 (+) — Extend polynomial identities to the complex numbers
        N-CN.9 (+) — Know the Fundamental Theorem of Algebra; show that it is true for quadratic polynomials

    N-VM Vector and Matrix Quantities (+)
      N-VM.A Represent and model with vector quantities.
        N-VM.1 (+) — Recognize vector quantities as having both magnitude and direction
        N-VM.2 (+) — Find the components of a vector by subtracting the coordinates of an initial point from…
        N-VM.3 (+) — Solve problems involving velocity and other quantities that can be represented by vectors
      N-VM.B Perform operations on vectors.
        N-VM.4 (+) — Add and subtract vectors
        N-VM.5 (+) — Multiply a vector by a scalar
      N-VM.C Perform operations on matrices and use matrices in applications.
        N-VM.6 (+) — Use matrices to represent and manipulate data
        N-VM.7 (+) — Multiply matrices by scalars to produce new matrices
        N-VM.8 (+) — Add, subtract, and multiply matrices of appropriate dimensions
        N-VM.9 (+) — Understand that, unlike multiplication of numbers, matrix multiplication for square…
        N-VM.10 (+) — Understand that the zero and identity matrices play a role in matrix addition and…
        N-VM.11 (+) — Multiply a vector (regarded as a matrix with one column) by a matrix of suitable…
        N-VM.12 (+) — Work with 2 × 2 matrices as transformations of the plane

  HS Algebra
    A-SSE Seeing Structure in Expressions
      A-SSE.A Interpret the structure of expressions
        A-SSE.1 — Interpret expressions that represent a quantity in terms of its context
        A-SSE.2 — Use the structure of an expression to identify ways to rewrite it
      A-SSE.B Write expressions in equivalent forms to solve problems
        A-SSE.3 — Choose and produce an equivalent form of an expression to reveal and explain properties…
        A-SSE.4 — Derive the formula for the sum of a finite geometric series (when the common ratio is not 1)

    A-APR Arithmetic with Polynomials and Rational Expressions
      A-APR.A Perform arithmetic operations on polynomials
        A-APR.1 — Understand that polynomials form a system analogous to the integers
      A-APR.B Understand the relationship between zeros and factors of polynomials
        A-APR.2 — Know and apply the Remainder Theorem: For a polynomial p(x) and a number a
        A-APR.3 — Identify zeros of polynomials when suitable factorizations are available
      A-APR.C Use polynomial identities to solve problems
        A-APR.4 — Prove polynomial identities and use them to describe numerical relationships
        A-APR.5 (+) — Know and apply the Binomial Theorem for the expansion of (x + y)n in powers of x and y…
      A-APR.D Rewrite rational expressions
        A-APR.6 — Rewrite simple rational expressions in different forms
        A-APR.7 (+) — Understand that rational expressions form a system analogous to the rational numbers

    A-CED Creating Equations
      A-CED.A Create equations that describe numbers or relationships
        A-CED.1 — Create equations and inequalities in one variable and use them to solve problems
        A-CED.2 — Create equations in two or more variables to represent relationships between quantities
        A-CED.3 — Represent constraints by equations or inequalities
        A-CED.4 — Rearrange formulas to highlight a quantity of interest

    A-REI Reasoning with Equations and Inequalities
      A-REI.A Understand solving equations as a process of reasoning and explain the reasoning
        A-REI.1 — Explain each step in solving a simple equation as following from the equality of numbers…
        A-REI.2 — Solve simple rational and radical equations in one variable
      A-REI.B Solve equations and inequalities in one variable
        A-REI.3 — Solve linear equations and inequalities in one variable
        A-REI.4 — Solve quadratic equations in one variable
      A-REI.C Solve systems of equations
        A-REI.5 — Prove that, given a system of two equations in two variables, replacing one equation by…
        A-REI.6 — Solve systems of linear equations exactly and approximately
        A-REI.7 — Solve a simple system consisting of a linear equation and a quadratic equation in two…
        A-REI.8 (+) — Represent a system of linear equations as a single matrix equation in a vector variable
        A-REI.9 (+) — Find the inverse of a matrix if it exists and use it to solve systems of linear…
      A-REI.D Represent and solve equations and inequalities graphically
        A-REI.10 — Understand that the graph of an equation in two variables is the set of all its…
        A-REI.11 — Explain why the x-coordinates of the points where the graphs of the equations y = f(x)…
        A-REI.12 — Graph the solutions to a linear inequality in two variables as a half-plane

  HS Functions
    F-IF Interpreting Functions
      F-IF.A Understand the concept of a function and use function notation
        F-IF.1 — Understand that a function from one set (called the domain) to another set
        F-IF.2 — Use function notation, evaluate functions for inputs in their domains, and interpret…
        F-IF.3 — Recognize that sequences are functions
      F-IF.B Interpret functions that arise in applications in terms of the context
        F-IF.4 — For a function that models a relationship between two quantities
        F-IF.5 — Relate the domain of a function to its graph and
        F-IF.6 — Calculate and interpret the average rate of change of a function
      F-IF.C Analyze functions using different representations
        F-IF.7 — Graph functions expressed symbolically and show key features of the graph
        F-IF.8 — Write a function defined by an expression in different but equivalent forms to reveal…
        F-IF.9 — Compare properties of two functions each represented in a different way

    F-BF Building Functions
      F-BF.A Build a function that models a relationship between two quantities
        F-BF.1 — Write a function that describes a relationship between two quantities
        F-BF.2 — Write arithmetic and geometric sequences both recursively and with an explicit formula
      F-BF.B Build new functions from existing functions
        F-BF.3 — Identify the effect on the graph of replacing f(x) by f(x) + k
        F-BF.4 — Find inverse functions
        F-BF.5 (+) — Understand the inverse relationship between exponents and logarithms and use this…

    F-LE Linear, Quadratic, and Exponential Models
      F-LE.A Construct and compare linear, quadratic, and exponential models and solve problems
        F-LE.1 — Distinguish between situations that can be modeled with linear functions and with…
        F-LE.2 — Construct linear and exponential functions
        F-LE.3 — Observe using graphs and tables that a quantity increasing exponentially eventually…
        F-LE.4 — For exponential models, express as a logarithm the solution to abct = d where a, c, and…
      F-LE.B Interpret expressions for functions in terms of the situation they model
        F-LE.5 — Interpret the parameters in a linear or exponential function in terms of a context

    F-TF Trigonometric Functions
      F-TF.A Extend the domain of trigonometric functions using the unit circle
        F-TF.1 — Understand radian measure of an angle as the length of the arc on the unit circle…
        F-TF.2 — Explain how the unit circle in the coordinate plane enables the extension of…
        F-TF.3 (+) — Use special triangles to determine geometrically the values of sine
        F-TF.4 (+) — Use the unit circle to explain symmetry (odd and even) and periodicity of trigonometric…
      F-TF.B Model periodic phenomena with trigonometric functions
        F-TF.5 — Choose trigonometric functions to model periodic phenomena with specified amplitude
        F-TF.6 (+) — Understand that restricting a trigonometric function to a domain on which it is always…
        F-TF.7 (+) — Use inverse functions to solve trigonometric equations that arise in modeling contexts
      F-TF.C Prove and apply trigonometric identities
        F-TF.8 — Prove the Pythagorean identity sin²(θ) + cos²(θ) = 1 and use it to find sin(θ)
        F-TF.9 (+) — Prove the addition and subtraction formulas for sine

  HS Geometry
    G-CO Congruence
      G-CO.A Experiment with transformations in the plane
        G-CO.1 — Know precise definitions of angle, circle, perpendicular line, parallel line, and line…
        G-CO.2 — Represent transformations in the plane using
        G-CO.3 — Given a rectangle, parallelogram, trapezoid, or regular polygon, describe the rotations…
        G-CO.4 — Develop definitions of rotations, reflections, and translations in terms of angles,…
        G-CO.5 — Given a geometric figure and a rotation
      G-CO.B Understand congruence in terms of rigid motions
        G-CO.6 — Use geometric descriptions of rigid motions to transform figures and to predict the…
        G-CO.7 — Use the definition of congruence in terms of rigid motions to show that two triangles…
        G-CO.8 — Explain how the criteria for triangle congruence
      G-CO.C Prove geometric theorems
        G-CO.9 — Prove theorems about lines and angles
        G-CO.10 — Prove theorems about triangles
        G-CO.11 — Prove theorems about parallelograms
      G-CO.D Make geometric constructions
        G-CO.12 — Make formal geometric constructions with a variety of tools and methods
        G-CO.13 — Construct an equilateral triangle, a square, and a regular hexagon inscribed in a circle

    G-SRT Similarity, Right Triangles, and Trigonometry
      G-SRT.A Understand similarity in terms of similarity transformations
        G-SRT.1 — Verify experimentally the properties of dilations given by a center and a scale factor
        G-SRT.2 — Given two figures, use the definition of similarity in terms of similarity…
        G-SRT.3 — Use the properties of similarity transformations to establish the AA criterion for two…
      G-SRT.B Prove theorems involving similarity
        G-SRT.4 — Prove theorems about triangles
        G-SRT.5 — Use congruence and similarity criteria for triangles to solve problems and to prove…
      G-SRT.C Define trigonometric ratios and solve problems involving right triangles
        G-SRT.6 — Understand that by similarity, side ratios in right triangles are properties of the…
        G-SRT.7 — Explain and use the relationship between the sine and cosine of complementary angles
        G-SRT.8 — Use trigonometric ratios and the Pythagorean Theorem to solve right triangles in applied…
      G-SRT.D Apply trigonometry to general triangles
        G-SRT.9 (+) — Derive the formula A = 1/2 ab sin(C) for the area of a triangle by drawing an auxiliary…
        G-SRT.10 (+) — Prove the Laws of Sines and Cosines and use them to solve problems
        G-SRT.11 (+) — Understand and apply the Law of Sines and the Law of Cosines to find unknown…

    G-C Circles
      G-C.A Understand and apply theorems about circles
        G-C.1 — Prove that all circles are similar
        G-C.2 — Identify and describe relationships among inscribed angles, radii, and chords
        G-C.3 — Construct the inscribed and circumscribed circles of a triangle
        G-C.4 (+) — Construct a tangent line from a point outside a given circle to the circle
      G-C.B Find arc lengths and areas of sectors of circles
        G-C.5 — Derive using similarity the fact that the length of the arc intercepted by an angle is…

    G-GPE Expressing Geometric Properties with Equations
      G-GPE.A Translate between the geometric description and the equation for a conic section
        G-GPE.1 — Derive the equation of a circle of given center and radius using the Pythagorean Theorem
        G-GPE.2 — Derive the equation of a parabola given a focus and directrix
        G-GPE.3 (+) — Derive the equations of ellipses and hyperbolas given the foci
      G-GPE.B Use coordinates to prove simple geometric theorems algebraically
        G-GPE.4 — Use coordinates to prove simple geometric theorems algebraically
        G-GPE.5 — Prove the slope criteria for parallel and perpendicular lines and use them to solve…
        G-GPE.6 — Find the point on a directed line segment between two given points that partitions the…
        G-GPE.7 — Use coordinates to compute perimeters of polygons and areas of triangles and rectangles

    G-GMD Geometric Measurement and Dimension
      G-GMD.A Explain volume formulas and use them to solve problems
        G-GMD.1 — Give an informal argument for the formulas for the circumference of a circle
        G-GMD.2 (+) — Give an informal argument using Cavalieri's principle for the formulas for the volume of…
        G-GMD.3 — Use volume formulas for cylinders, pyramids, cones, and spheres to solve problems
      G-GMD.B Visualize relationships between two-dimensional and three-dimensional objects
        G-GMD.4 — Identify the shapes of two-dimensional cross-sections of three-dimensional objects

    G-MG Modeling with Geometry
      G-MG.A Apply geometric concepts in modeling situations
        G-MG.1 — Use geometric shapes, their measures, and their properties to describe objects
        G-MG.2 — Apply concepts of density based on area and volume in modeling situations
        G-MG.3 — Apply geometric methods to solve design problems

  HS Statistics and Probability
    S-ID Interpreting Categorical and Quantitative Data
      S-ID.A Summarize, represent, and interpret data on a single count or measurement variable
        S-ID.1 — Represent data with plots on the real number line (dot plots, histograms, and box plots)
        S-ID.2 — Use statistics appropriate to the shape of the data distribution to compare center
        S-ID.3 — Interpret differences in shape, center, and spread in the context of the data sets,…
        S-ID.4 — Use the mean and standard deviation of a data set to fit it to a normal distribution and…
      S-ID.B Summarize, represent, and interpret data on two categorical and quantitative variables
        S-ID.5 — Summarize categorical data for two categories in two-way frequency tables
        S-ID.6 — Represent data on two quantitative variables on a scatter plot
      S-ID.C Interpret linear models
        S-ID.7 — Interpret the slope (rate of change) and the intercept (constant term) of a linear model…
        S-ID.8 — Compute (using technology) and interpret the correlation coefficient of a linear fit
        S-ID.9 — Distinguish between correlation and causation

    S-IC Making Inferences and Justifying Conclusions
      S-IC.A Understand and evaluate random processes underlying statistical experiments
        S-IC.1 — Understand statistics as a process for making inferences about population parameters…
        S-IC.2 — Decide if a specified model is consistent with results from a given data-generating process
      S-IC.B Make inferences and justify conclusions from sample surveys, experiments, and observational studies
        S-IC.3 — Recognize the purposes of and differences among sample surveys
        S-IC.4 — Use data from a sample survey to estimate a population mean or proportion
        S-IC.5 — Use data from a randomized experiment to compare two treatments
        S-IC.6 — Evaluate reports based on data

    S-CP Conditional Probability and the Rules of Probability
      S-CP.A Understand independence and conditional probability and use them to interpret data
        S-CP.1 — Describe events as subsets of a sample space (the set of outcomes) using characteristics…
        S-CP.2 — Understand that two events A and B are independent if the probability of A and B…
        S-CP.3 — Understand the conditional probability of A given B as P(A and B)/P(B)
        S-CP.4 — Construct and interpret two-way frequency tables of data when two categories are…
        S-CP.5 — Recognize and explain the concepts of conditional probability and independence in…
      S-CP.B Use the rules of probability to compute probabilities of compound events in a uniform probability model
        S-CP.6 — Find the conditional probability of A given B as the fraction of B's outcomes that also…
        S-CP.7 — Apply the Addition Rule, P(A or B) = P(A) + P(B) — P(A and B), and interpret the answer…
        S-CP.8 (+) — Apply the general Multiplication Rule in a uniform probability model
        S-CP.9 (+) — Use permutations and combinations to compute probabilities of compound events and solve…

    S-MD Using Probability to Make Decisions (+)
      S-MD.A Calculate expected values and use them to solve problems
        S-MD.1 (+) — Define a random variable for a quantity of interest by assigning a numerical value to…
        S-MD.2 (+) — Calculate the expected value of a random variable
        S-MD.3 (+) — Develop a probability distribution for a random variable defined for a sample space in…
        S-MD.4 (+) — Develop a probability distribution for a random variable defined for a sample space in…
      S-MD.B Use probability to evaluate outcomes of decisions
        S-MD.5 (+) — Weigh the possible outcomes of a decision by assigning probabilities to payoff values…
        S-MD.6 (+) — Use probabilities to make fair decisions
        S-MD.7 (+) — Analyze decisions and strategies using probability concepts

  HS Modeling
    High School Mathematical Modeling Cycle


